Be more clear about switching networks. (#415)
filecoin-project/filecoin-docs: docs/get-started/lotus/switch-networks.md

---
title: 'Lotus: switch networks'

> description: There may be times, particularly when testing, where you wish to swtich to a different Filecoin network, or need to reconnect to a testing network after a network reset. This guide will show you how to switch between different Filecoin networks with Lotus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: There may be times, particularly when testing, where you wish to switch to a different Filecoin network or need to reconnect to a testing network after a network reset. This guide will show you how to switch between different Filecoin networks with Lotus.
```

breadcrumb: Switch networks
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }}

{{ $frontmatter.description }}

> As we mentioned in the [installation guide](installation.md), Lotus is compiled to operate on a single network and the information in the configuration folder corresponds to that network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we mentioned in the [installation guide](installation.md), Lotus is compiled to operate on a single network, and the information in the configuration folder corresponds to that network.
```

> We have several ways to make Lotus run on a different network:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple methods to make Lotus run on a different network:
```

[[TOC]]

> ## Approach 1: Clean, re-build and re-install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Approach 1: Clean, re-build, and re-install
```

> The first approach is the simplest. In this approach you remove all the data related to the network you were running on before and launch a Lotus binary built to run on the new one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first method is the simplest. In this approach, you remove all the data related to the network you were running on before and launch a Lotus binary built to run on the new one:
```

> 1. Shutdown the running Lotus daemon
> 2. Remove the `~/.lotus` (or `$LOTUS_PATH`) folder
> 3. Rebuild and install Lotus on the right branch or release (as defined in the [Networks dashboard](https://networks.filecoin.io).
> 4. Start the Lotus daemon again and let it sync to the new network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Shutdown the running Lotus daemon.
2. Remove the `~/.lotus` (or `$LOTUS_PATH`) folder.
3. Rebuild and install Lotus on the right branch or release, as defined in the [Networks dashboard](https://networks.filecoin.io).
4. Start the Lotus daemon again and let it sync to the new network.
```

> Be aware that this deletes everything from the old network, including wallets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process deletes everything from the old network, including wallets. Make sure you have functioning backups of important data before attempting to switch networks.
```

## Approach 2: Install and run on a different \$LOTUS_PATH

> In this approach you keep all the data from the old network where it was, and instead set `$LOTUS_PATH` to a new, clean location so that Lotus will use it. This allows you to keep the old data in place, and eventually run again on the old network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method allows you to keep all the data from the old network where it was, and instead set `$LOTUS_PATH` to a new, clean location so that Lotus will use it. This method is useful if you need to run Lotus using the original network shortly after switching networks.
```

> 1. Shutdown the running Lotus daemon
> 2. Rebuild and install Lotus on the right branch or release (as defined in the [Networks dashboard](https://networks.filecoin.io).
> 3. Set `LOTUS_PATH` to a new location. i.e. `export LOTUS_PATH=~/.lotus2` (for example)
> 4. Start the Lotus daemon again and let it sync to the new network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Shutdown the running Lotus daemon.
2. Rebuild and install Lotus on the right branch or release (as defined in the [Networks dashboard](https://networks.filecoin.io).
3. Set `LOTUS_PATH` to a new location. i.e. `export LOTUS_PATH=~/.lotus2`.
4. Start the Lotus daemon again and let it sync to the new network.
```

## Backing up Lotus data

> If you wish to backup Lotus data, you can also move your `~/.lotus` (or `$LOTUS_PATH`) folder somewhere else (though this might take time if it is very large).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wish to backup Lotus data, simply copy the `~/.lotus` (or `$LOTUS_PATH`) folder somewhere. This copy might take time if it is very large, especially if you've synced the fulled network.
```

> Another alternative is to [export your wallets](send-and-receive-fil.md) and also [export the chain](chain-snapshots.md) for later re-import, if needed, on a newly installed Lotus Node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another alternative is to [export your wallets](send-and-receive-fil.md) and also [export the chain](chain-snapshots.md) for later re-import on a newly installed Lotus Node.
```
